Now, if you go back to the homepage,
you'll see that we've created
a problem for ourselves.
We've got that footer at the bottom of the
screen because we added some CSS that's
controlling the height of the main element
that contains all of this content.
And we can no longer scroll down
the page because our main element has
a maximum height.
And we don't really want that,
but we can't not have a height on
the main element when we've
got an infinite loading page,
because otherwise we'll never be
able to get that windowing effect.
So we need to have some way
of controlling the layout
based on what type of page we're on.
And this is where SvelteKit's data
loading as a separate step from page
rendering becomes really useful.
We're gonna be able to distinguish
between two types of pages,
pages that have an infinite loading
component and those that don't.
So I'm gonna open the page.ts
that we were looking at before,
and I'm gonna add a new value,
infinite true.
And in our layout component, We have
access to the entire page data
if we import the page store.
So let's do that,
import  from '$app/stores'.
If we add a class name to
the main element of infinite,
Which is gonna be true if any load
function that was involved in rendering
the current page returned
an infinite property.
And now the styles that we
applied to the main here,
we're only gonna apply these
if it is an infinite page.
Right, so our homepage is now
fixed apart from a glitch
on the nav that I
apparently just introduced.
But the infinite loading
page works as we would hope.
We got a question from the crowd?
>> Scrolling up and down causes re
fetching or is it cached somehow?
>> So someone just asked
a really great question,
is the data cached already
fetching it a new each time?
So we're keeping this stuff
in memory as we're scrolling.
And so, if we scroll all the way down,
we are fetching more data, we're fetching
more data, we're fetching more data.
But as we scroll back up,
we're just rendering the data
that we already have in memory.
We're only gonna start loading more data
once we get to the end of the scroll
window.
And because we've already got all of this
data, we're not gonna get to the end
of the scroll window until it is
in fact time to load more data.
But there is a really useful thing
that we can do since we're controlling
the data loading in
a universal load function.
And that is we can add some
client side caching of our own.
And that's useful because if you
look at this front page here,
we're already making a request to
the trending API in the now playing API,
and the upcoming API endpoint.
And it would be nice if we could just
reuse that data when we navigate
to these pages.
So let's go into our API helper.
And we'll actually go ahead and
implement that.
So open lib/api.ts, and
inside this get function,
we can create a cache.
This is gonna be a new map, right?
Super naive in a real app you would have a
little bit more of a sophisticated caching
policy than just add
everything to a cache map.
But It's perfectly fine for this demo, so
we're gonna create a string
which is a url, and
it's gonna be all of that data there.
And I'm gonna replace that
with a reference to a url.
And now,
if we've cached this data already,
then we're just gonna return
it directly from the cache.
If cache.has(url), return cache.get(url),
otherwise we'll make
an API call by calling
await fetch get the data const
data = await response.json().
And then we're gonna
add that to the cache.
And for good measure,
let's add some logging when we get
a cache hit versus a cache miss.
We'll bring up the console.
And so when we load this page,
we've got a bunch of cache misses.
But that's okay because we're using
SvelteKit's built-in fetch and
what's actually happening here is the data
is being fetched on the server and
then the response is being
inlined into the HTML.
So that when we fetch it in the client
during hydration it's just grabbing
the same data that was already
fetched on the server.
So we don't have a duplicate
network request and
that allows us to guarantee consistency.
Now, if we just clear that and
navigate to the trending page,
then hopefully, we got a cache miss,
so disappointing.
That's because we have
a default page there.
So let's get rid of the page equals one in
the case where no page is necessary.
Or alternatively, what we could do
is in our root page load function,
we'll just always default
to page equals one.
So go to the root page.ts over here.
And in each of these,
we're just gonna add page 1, like so.
Right, let's go to the homepage and
navigate to the trending page.
All right, we've got a cache hit for
the first page and
a cache miss for the second page, and
then we will continue to get cache
misses for the subsequent pages.
But if we now navigate
back to the home page,
we are not gonna be fetching any new data
we're getting all these lovely cache hits.
So we're gonna get
instantaneous navigation.
And this is something that you can
only really do in a framework that
has universal load functions, as opposed
to making you go back to the server for
everything.
So obviously, there is a time and
a place for loading data from the server.
But loading data directly from the client
is really good particularly for
stuff that involves things
like real time and so on.
And so SvelteKit gives you
both of those options for
whatever you need when
you're building your app.
That was a great question that segs so
nicely into what I was about to cover.